---
tags: NumPy, BIDS
---

# 2019-2-27 BIDS/NumPy Development Meeting

- Join via Zoom at [https://berkeley.zoom.us/j/400054438](https://berkeley.zoom.us/j/400054438), or dial-in through a [local phone number](https://zoom.us/u/adQDmEc1wI).
- [Trello workboard](https://trello.com/b/Azg4fYZH/numpy-at-bids)
- [Previous meetings](https://github.com/BIDS-numpy/docs/tree/master/status_meetings)
- [NumPy at BIDS Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=YmVya2VsZXkuZWR1X2lla2dwaWdtMjMyamJobGRzZmIyYzJqODFjQGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20)

**Present:** Matti, Tyler, Hameer, Chuck, Stefan, Sasha (Intel)

## Follow-up from last meeting/discussions

- Import problem on windows
  - Tyler's PR was merged, Chuck has released 1.16.2. There was a bit of pushback on the solution, it may change.
  - Anaconda backtracked. You now need to set an environment variable to cause the breakage, everything should work by default
      - Does this also work in the conda's default NumPy (not conda-forge)?
  - Steve Dower opened a [cpython issue](https://bugs.python.org/issue36085)
- Radix sort PR can progress
    - Sorting [benchmark PR](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12968) is waiting to be merged. Do we care about continuity with past benchmarks?
    - Still have not opened a PR to deprecate the access to `PyArray_Descr`, to deprecate `PyArray_RegisterDataType`, `PyArray_InitArrFuncs`, and move to an API that allocates the struct.
    - Should we run the benchmarks after the PR is merged and decide which of quicksort/timsort/radix sort should be the default for certain dtypes?
        - Hameer removed the change of the defaults for now.
- `shlex.split` has been replaced with a `shell_split` function on windows.
- Call with IBM
  -  TODO: Document contact person and how we access the gcc build farm (and other similar resources).

## Community Suggested Topics
- Is using [manylinux2010](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0571/) and revamping our wheel building scripts a worthy goal for the grant? (mattip) I would suggest as best practices
  - Review and document the current process
  - Talk to Matthew Brett.
  - Try to move as much of the scripting into CI-agnostic stand-alone bat/shell files as possible
    - why? we already have too many bash scripts & git submodules in the workflow (Tyler) so maybe we can set as a goal "simplify the process" too (mattip)
    - maybe the topic of binary distribution infrastructure is sufficiently complex and contentious for a NEP? (Tyler)
  - Update to use manylinux2010?
    - TODO: Check whether this works well with pip going reasonably far back in version.
  - who controls the development of these standards? what are the prospects for ppc64le wheels? (Tyler)
- Engaging with instructors working with industry to promote open source contributions (mattip)
  
  I listened to the [testing podcast](https://testandcode.com/62). He recently interviewed people who teach python in industry, and there was someone on TalkPython who teaches moving from Excel to Python. Would it make sense to leverage their exposure to encourage OpenSource contributions? How best to approach this?
  - Do we have canned material they can re-use about how to get involved, or should we show up in person? [scikit-image core dev onboarding](http://scikit-image.org/docs/dev/core_developer.html) [scikit image contribution](http://scikit-image.org/docs/dev/contribute.html) but it should be more inclusive of the different ways to contribute: web site, packaging, "itch to scratch", performace??
  - Should we be meeting with middle level managers to encourage their engineers to work on open source projects?
  
- Repo with Intel distribution of NumPy, showing their patches: https://github.com/IntelPython/numpy
  - Intel can review our Intel-related issues & possibly migrate the issues to their repo if they deem this appropriate
   
- Outreachy: positive feedback from the mailing list so we will move forward.
   
## Work status

Matti:
- Good progress made with sphinx documentation generation warnings. The goal of a clean build is in sight. ðŸš€
- Cleanups via searching for `offset` in issues and PRs.
- Try to unstick dtype progress by writing another [dtype document](https://hackmd.io/ok21UoAQQmOtSVk6keaJhw?both#) thinking maybe github comments is no the forum to manage a discussion. But that didn't work either. Maybe we need to do a "dtype summit" over a weekend to get some of the higher level details discussed to progress could be made? Could it be virtual? I could come to the west coast for that?
  - TODO: Get all the documents together in one place, post it to the dev mailing list with a call to get reactions
  - Eric: some more ideas WIP at [yet another document](https://hackmd.io/s/ryTFaOPHE)
  - TODO: Send Eric's document out to the mailing list

Tyler:
- Compile-time `OpenBLAS` version detection is [now working](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/12790), but still at the PR / review stage
  - there's some room for improvement with the Windows handling (maybe) 
  - eventually the aim is to lock down wheel builds with the `OpenBLAS` version sanity check & ensure a match with dev CI
  - also, perhaps desirable to add this detection in SciPy somehow (via distutils)
- the usual challenges with moving the SciPy manuscript forward
  
---

Please remember to archive this file and commit it to github.com/bids-numpy/docs
