# Status -- week of September 17/ 2018

### Testing, CI, DevOps stuff
- ARMv8 / shippable CI has been merged and is now active on pull requests and merges to master
- ppc64 arch CI has been briefly discussed on mailing list (Allan Haldane, Ralf), but not clear if Tyler should follow up with potential resource in Oregon because it is not a "full-fledged" service
    - add to Trello: come back later
- testing feedback cycles a bit slow with Appveyor / Windows; suggestion from Chuck to start experimenting with Azure maybe (Linux, Mac, Windows available); Numba reports much faster service there for now--should Tyler start exploring this a little for i.e., an experimental Windows build to start?
    - maybe look at this in a fork first or something?; Tyler needs to investigate social aspect for permissions / organizations on Azure
- also on the theme of "testing agility / feedback", there are 96 cores on the shippable nodes and we don't leverage them particularly well--scaling of `python setup.py build -j 96 install` is quite poor and our test suite (warnings in particular) is not thread safe so stochastic failures on multi-core pytest; if the steering committee is eventually interested in investing in better test infrastructure we'd ideally want to actually be able to use the resources efficiently
- codecov should now report results irrespective of other failures in Travis matrix
- [codecov spam problem?](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/11984) -- completely broken for SciPy now too, for different reasons

### distutils / f2py
- the [issue reported by NASA](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/11824) remains a focus for Tyler--a series of `distutils` and `f2py` related PRs have been merged / are in progress; this is extremely time-consuming & tricky because of poor test coverage, large potential downstream impact on package installs, and ancient documentation / functions that have been deprecated for 10+ years; target is `1.16` release to prevent `distutils` / `f2py` from interacting with local machine shell directly
    - Tyler should try building i..e, ScipY master with updated numpy distutils

### dtype / related
- Tyler opened a WIP / [experimental PR](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11931) which activates native unicode string concat: `np.array(['a', 'b']) + np.array(['c', 'd']) -> np.array(['ac', 'bd'])`
    - looks like Eric might be +1 on the experimental idea; this was previously discussed b/w Tyler and Nathaniel; my 72-bit missing int effort is at least temporarily on hold--maybe a bit too much to start with that, but the extensive notes and code diff are useful references
- Tyler also recently noted that [only a single unit test fails](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11836) on Python 3.6 if we don't zero the bytes of memory allocated for `np.generic`; there's a comment suggesting this kind of simplification in the source, but Tyler doesn't fully understand--isn't that a security vulnerability if there's a i.e., a key there in memory and we don't zero it and then someone pickles an array or something?
- Tyler will likely hold off on additional `datetime64` related fixes -- several of the PRs I opened for that recently haven't been prioritized, and maybe it is just tricky as a sort of experimental/ not fully decided dtype

### grants / industrial contacts
- Stefan: grant report to Sloan is due 1 October
- Tyler:
    - Starting ~October Tyler will have a modest pool of PI funds from LDRD (LANL) so that i.e., travel between the locations might be supported to maintain reserach connections / efforts; ideas to maximize value of such a visit in the coming 12 months? connections between institutional efforts?
    - UC & LANL will gain stronger connectivity starting November 1 as Triad (Battelle, the Texas A&M University System and the University of California) take over operation of the lab
    - October 11 deadline for Tyler to submit LDRD ECR -- $208 k / annum for two calendar years for risky  / innovative work -- open source connection ideas to fund a student?
        - Qualifications of PI and Team (35% weight): "The weight for PI/team qualifications emphasizes the objective of developing technical leadership among the early career staff."
- Matti:
  - Matti made contact with two groups interested in a 20-minute talk about OpenSource/NumPY. One is a teaching institution, we will probably organize a first-time OSS sprint. The other is a start-up where the algo team uses NumPy heavily and wants to hear about Numpy. Matti will also attend the annual "Open Source in the Defense Industry" conference in Israel in early October, hopefully that too will lead to some discussion about getting them involved in contributing to Open Source.
- other:
    - tidelift?
    - NumFOCUS small grants?

### NEP 18, dtypes, cython, and priorities
The work on implementing NEP 18, expanding gufunc signatures, plods along in [PR #11175](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11175). The latest blocker is that we changed the size of PyUFuncObject, which is the object behind all the ufuncs like `np.add`. There is concern this will break downstream user's code, although it is [not clear how](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11175#issuecomment-421721119) and there is precedent for [changing `PyArray_Descr`](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11175#issuecomment-421720013). Perhaps if a few more core developers chimed in we could move a bit quicker.

The desire to make the NumPy internals more private seems to come up when making large changes, which is why Matti has not begun with the dtype `PyObject` -> `PyTypeObject` changes we discussed last week. It seems before then we should refactor our headers to hide more structs. One of the blockers for this is that cython uses the struct fields when transitioning from python-like code `a.ndim` to the C code `a->nd`. We would prefer this become `PyArray_NDIMS(a)` but cython does not support that. Matti played with a change to cython to make that work via a getter function, the idea gained some traction on the [cython issue](https://github.com/cython/cython/issues/2498#issuecomment-417836866). Should this become a priority, so that we can discourage direct access to NumPy internals? This would make [maintaining numpy cython definition files in NumPy](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/11803) straightforward, so they would match the NumPy release cycle, rather than the Cython version.

### reference cycles in `vectorize`
Working on [issue #11867](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/issues/11867) it seems there is a problem with creating hard-to-break reference cycles when passing a class method to `vectorize`. The function itself is rarely used. Should I continue working on it?

### Positive effects from the NumPy sprint
It seems the [scalar documentation PR](https://github.com/numpy/numpy/pull/11858) is moving, and a new committer who began their work in the EuroScipy sprint has slogged through to get a rather big DOC PR approved! I did write up the EuroScipy experience on a Trello card, should it become a blog post?

### Website rework
We need to write a conract and put out a bid. It would require sphinx and rst capabilites. 
